-- Exercise 1 - Computer firm
Find the model number, speed and hard drive capacity for all the PCs with prices below $500.
Result set: model, speed, hd.

Select model, speed, hd from pc where price < 500

-- Exercise 2 - Computer firm
List all printer makers. Result set: maker.

select distinct maker from product where type = 'Printer';

Descrpition: Why this way? We need to consider a situation, when there is a model in Product table, but there isnt one in Printer table (one-to-many relation).

-- Exercise 3 -  Computer firm
Find the model number, RAM and screen size of the laptops with prices over $1000. 

select model, ram, screen from laptop where price > 1000

-- Exercise 4 - Computer firm

Select * from printer where color='y';

-- Exercise 5 - Computer firm

Select model, speed, hd from pc
where price < 600 and cd in ('12x', '24x');

-- Exercise 6 - Computer firm
For each maker producing laptops with a hard drive capacity of 10 Gb or higher, find the speed of such laptops. Result set: maker, speed.

Select distinct pro.maker, l.speed
from product pro inner join laptop l on l.model = pro.model
where l.hd >= 10

-- Exercise 7 - Computer firm
Get the models and prices for all commercially available products (of any type) produced by maker B. 

Select distinct d.model, d.price
from product p
inner join (
select model, price from pc
union all
select model, price from laptop
union all
select model, price from printer
) d on p.model = d.model
where p.maker='B';

-- Exercise 8 - Computer firm
Find the makers producing PCs but not laptops. 

select distinct p1.maker from product p1
where not exists
(select null from product p
where p.maker = p1.maker and p.type = 'Laptop')
and exists
(select null from product p where p.maker = p1.maker
and p.type='PC')

-- Exercise 9 - 
Find the makers of PCs with a processor speed of 450 MHz or more. Result set: maker.

select maker from product inner join pc on product.model = pc.model where pc.speed >= 450
group by maker


-- Exercise 10 - 
Find the printer models having the highest price. Result set: model, price.

Select model, price from printer
where price = (select max(price) from printer)

















